[new] Identify and resolve index issues in MST (#1804)
timescale/docs: mst/identify-index-issues.md

---
title: Identify and resolve issues with indexes in Managed Service for TimescaleDB
excerpt: Identify and resolve issues with PostgreSQL indexes in Managed Service for TimescaleDB
product: mst
keywords: [index, REINDEX]
---

# Identify and repair issues with PostgreSQL indexes with `REINDEX`

> PostgreSQL indexes can be corrupted due to a variety of reasons including

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostgreSQL indexes can be corrupted for a variety of reasons, including
```

> software bugs, hardware failures or unexpected duplicated data. `REINDEX` allows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
software bugs, hardware failures, or unexpected duplicated data. `REINDEX` allows
```

you to rebuild the index in such situations.

## Rebuild non-unique indexes

You can rebuild corrupted indexes that do not have `UNIQUE` in their definition.
You can run the `REINDEX` command for all indexes of a table (`REINDEX TABLE`),
and for all indexes in the entire database (`REINDEX DATABASE`).
For more information on the `REINDEX` command, see the [PostgreSQL documentation][postgres-docs].

> This  command creates a new index that replaces the old one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This command creates a new index that replaces the old one:
```

```sql
REINDEX INDEX <index-name>;
```

<highlight type="note">
When you use `REINDEX`, the tables are locked and you may not be able to use the

> database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
database, until the operation is complete.
```

Or something?

</highlight>

> In some cases, you may have to manually build a second index concurrently

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, you might need to manually build a second index concurrently
```

> along with the old index and then remove the old index:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the old index, and then remove the old index:
```

```sql
CREATE INDEX CONCURRENTLY test_index_new ON table_a (...);
DROP INDEX CONCURRENTLY test_index_old;
ALTER INDEX test_index_new RENAME TO test_index;
```

## Rebuild unique indexes

> A `UNIQUE` index works on one or more columns whose combination is unique

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `UNIQUE` index works on one or more columns where the combination is unique
```

> in a table. When the index is corrupted or disabled, duplicated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the table. When the index is corrupted or disabled, duplicated
```

physical rows appear in the table, breaking the uniqueness constraint of the

> index. When you try to rebuild index with `REINDEX` it fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
index. When you try to rebuild an index that is not unique, the `REINDEX` command fails.
```

---
title: Identify and resolve issues with indexes in Managed Service for TimescaleDB
excerpt: Identify and resolve issues with PostgreSQL indexes in Managed Service for TimescaleDB
product: mst

> keywords: [index, issues, reindex]
> tags: [index, issues, REINDEX,]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
keywords: [index, REINDEX]
```

The related content function (which is what tags are for) also reads the keywords automatically, so there's no need to repeat tags that already in the keywords. Keywords are displayed on the user interface and tags are internal, so if you want any special capitalization, put the formatting on the keywords.

---

# Identify and repair issues with PostgreSQL indexes with `REINDEX`

PostgreSQL indexes can be corrupted due to a variety of reasons including
software bugs, hardware failures or unexpected duplicated data. `REINDEX` allows
you to rebuild the index in such situations.

## Rebuild non-unique indexes

You can rebuild corrupted indexes that do not have `UNIQUE` in their definition.

> You can run the `REINDEX` command for all indexes of a table (REINDEX TABLE),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can run the `REINDEX` command for all indexes of a table (`REINDEX TABLE`),
```

> and for all indexes in the entire database (REINDEX DATABASE).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and for all indexes in the entire database (`REINDEX DATABASE`).
```

For more information on the `REINDEX` command, see the [PostgreSQL documentation][postgres-docs].
This  command creates a new index that replaces the old one:

```sql
REINDEX INDEX <index-name>;
```

<highlight type="note">
When you use `REINDEX`, the tables are locked and you may not be able to use the
database.
</highlight>

In some cases, you may have to manually build a second index concurrently
along with the old index and then remove the old index:

```sql
CREATE INDEX CONCURRENTLY test_index_new ON table_a (...);
DROP INDEX CONCURRENTLY test_index_old;
ALTER INDEX test_index_new RENAME TO test_index;
```

## Rebuild unique indexes

A `UNIQUE` index works on one or more columns whose combination is unique

> in a table. When the index is corrupted or disabled and duplicated
> physical rows appear in the table, and breaks the uniqueness constraint of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in a table. When the index is corrupted or disabled, duplicated
physical rows appear in the table, breaking the uniqueness constraint of the
```

index. When you try to rebuild index with `REINDEX` it fails.
To resolve this issue, first remove the duplicate rows from the table and then
rebuild the index.

### Identify conflicting duplicated rows

To identify conflicting duplicate rows, you need to run a query that counts the
number of rows for each combination of columns included in the index definition.

> For example, the this `route` table has a `unique_route_index` index defining

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, this `route` table has a `unique_route_index` index defining
```
